# 2.Get the Data

## 1. Using Colob 
- [Google Colab code]( https://homl.info/colab3)


## 2. Download the data

In typical environments your data would be available in a relational database or some other common data store, and spread across multiple tables/documents/files. To access it, you would first need to get your credentials and access authorizations⁠4 and familiarize yourself with the data schema. In this project, however, things are much simpler: you will just download a single compressed file, housing.tgz, which contains a comma-separated values (CSV) file called housing.csv with all the data.

Rather than manually downloading and decompressing the data, it’s usually preferable to write a function that does it for you. This is useful in particular if the data changes regularly: you can write a small script that uses the function to fetch the latest data (or you can set up a scheduled job to do that automatically at regular intervals). Automating the process of fetching the data is also useful if you need to install the dataset on multiple machines.

When load_housing_data() is called, it looks for the datasets/housing.tgz file. If it does not find it, it creates the datasets directory inside the current directory (which is /content by default, in Colab), downloads the housing.tgz file from the ageron/data GitHub repository, and extracts its content into the datasets directory; this creates the datasets/housing directory with the housing.csv file inside it. Lastly, the function loads this CSV file into a Pandas DataFrame object containing all the data, and returns it.

Check [](./02.get%20the%20data.ipynb)